Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to focus on the remaining templates that are block theme needs.
Let's jump right into the action.
So here's what I'd like to begin with up in the navigation, if I click on programs.
Well, it looks like a blog listing, but you can see the quote unquote blogs that are listed are biology,
English and math.
Now, those are indeed the programs that I have on this Web site.
Now, visually, they are displayed like a blog post.
And that's because a block theme is very similar to a traditional theme in the hierarchy or the way
that it chooses which template file to use.
So just like with a traditional theme, the indexed or indexed on each HTML template, that file is
used as the generic or fallback template for any URL that doesn't have a more specific template provided.
So for example, it's trying to display our custom post type of programs using the indexed HTML template.
So to fix this and make this page actually look like a list of programs instead of a list of blog posts,
all we need to do is create a specific template named archive dash program.
Right.
In other words, a template for this specific custom post type.
So let's go do that right now in our text editor, in our block theme within our templates folder.
We would just create a new file, a name of archive dash and then the custom post type name.
So Archive Dash program.
So this is the exact same name that you would have in a traditional theme.
Only now it's ending in dot.
Each HTML code now in this file.
Let's begin with the header in the footer and then we really just need to customize the block in the
middle.
So I would just jump into single that HTML.
Just copy that.
You don't have to type this in again.
Paste it into our brand new file.
And in this middle block, even though we haven't created the new block yet, let's look for a block
named program archive.
Let's give that a save.
And now let's just go create a new custom block type with this name program archive.
So I would start out in functions dot up just create a new placeholder block new placeholder block semicolon.
The name is Program Archive.
Let's give that a save.
Now we just go into our blocks, create a new file named program.
Archive dot Jess.
In this file, we can save a ton of typing by just borrowing code from a similar file.
So I would just jump into footer dot J.S., copy everything in there, paste it into the new empty program
archive JavaScript file.
Let's change the block variable name here to program archive.
Change the title to fictional university program archive.
And finally change this placeholder text.
So program archive.
Placeholder.
Let's give that a save.
And now finally in the Our Blocks folder, we need a new file named program.
Archive TCP IP.
Now again, this file is where we don't reinvent the wheel.
This is where we borrow code from our original theme.
So I would just switch to that window.
Fictional university theme.
I would look for the file specifically named archived dash program.
Dot up in that file.
We don't need the header, so I would just select from page banner.
Down to this closing date, we do not need the footer.
So just copy that.
Back in our block theme window in this empty new file.
Just paste in your clipboard up at the very top.
Be sure to have an opening p tag.
Let's give this a save.
And now if we go refresh this slash program's URL.
Perfect.
Now it actually makes sense for a list in alphabetical order with all of our posts from the programs
post type.
So now what's the next logical template we should work on?
Well, if you actually click on one of these links.
So biology that takes you to the single URL for just that post.
And you can see this is using the template for a single blog post, not a single program.
So to fix this, we would just go into our block theme.
In the templates folder, we would just create a new file named single dash program dot HTML.
In that new file, we just want the header, the footer and then the middle block.
So again, I would just jump in to single out HTML and copy this so I don't have to type it in.
Just paste it into the new file.
Let's change the name of the middle block.
So it would be single program.
Let's give that a save and go create that new block.
So in functions dot php, new placeholder block semicolon, single program.
Let's give that a save.
And then in the our blocks folder, it's a new JavaScript file.
Single program dot J.S..
Just borrow code from any of the other simple placeholder blocks.
So for example, header or footer dot jesus paste that into the new file.
Let's just change the variable name to single program fictional university single program in single
program placeholder.
Let's give that a save.
Finally, just create a P file.
So in the our blocks folder new file single program dot p.
This is where we borrow code from the original theme.
So switch back to that window.
Look for a file called single dash program.
Dot up at the top.
We do not need the header.
I would just begin selecting at the start of this while loop I'd scroll down to the very bottom.
And the last thing I want is this closing up curly bracket.
I don't need the footer, so I just copy that into my clipboard back in our empty file pasted in at
the top.
Make sure that we have a P tag just like this.
Let's give that a save.
If we refresh this single URL.
Perfect.
So we now have a little bit of intro content.
The breadcrumbs makes sense for a program we have related professors.
So that additional query based on metadata or relationship data that's working biology is available
at these campuses.
Perfect.
Why don't we go ahead and actually click on one of the professors?
So this is the single use rule for a professor post type.
Let's go ahead and set up the template for a single professor so that it's not using the single template
for a blog post.
So back in our theme in the templates folder, I would just create a new file named single dash professor
dot html.
In this file, I would just borrow the code from single program.
Just paste it in on this middle line.
Change this to single professor.
Give that a save, then go into functions.
Dot B Create a new placeholder block semicolon with a string value of single professor.
Save that and we just go into the blocks folder.
New file single professor dot Jess.
We can just borrow the code from single program paste today and change this to single.
Professor fictional.
University single.
Professor.
Change the placeholder value.
Save that.
Finally, the last step create a new file in our blocks named single professor TCP IP.
This is where we don't need to reinvent the wheel.
So back in our original theme, I would jump in to single professor TCP IP.
We don't need to get headers, so I would start with the while loop down at the bottom.
I would end with the closing curly bracket.
Copy that.
Back in our new empty file.
Just paste it in up at the very top.
Be sure to have the opening IP tag and let's test that out.
So if we refresh.
Perfect.
There is the professor portrait image, the heart feature where you can like a professor and then down
at the bottom.
Subjects taught biology in English.
Perfect.
At this point, this process we've been working through is getting very repetitive.
So I'm not going to bore you by walking through every single template that you would set up.
But I am going to walk through one more example, and that is the My Notes page.
So when you click on my notes, the URL of my notes, this is a WordPress page with the slug of my notes.
Now the actual content of the page is irrelevant.
You might remember that the interface that's supposed to appear here, that's powered by the template
file itself.
So this will be our last example.
Let's go ahead and set up this template for the My Notes page in feature.
So back in our block theme in the templates folder, we create a new file named page dash.
And now this is just like a traditional AP theme.
It's page dash and then it's the URL slug of the particular page you're interested in.
So that would be my dash notes.
And then the extension is dot html in this file, I'm just going to borrow the typical header footer
middle block so I don't have to type it out.
Paste that in.
Let's change this to be simply called my notes.
Let's give that a save and go set it up.
So in functions dot BHP.
So I have a new placeholder block.
So my column, the string value is my notes.
Save that in our blocks, create a new file my notes dot jess I would borrow code maybe from header
not just paste it in let's change the names of my notes, fictional university, my notes and finally
my notes placeholder.
The last step is in our blocks.
New file named My Notes Dot up.
Let's go find the code that we would copy and paste right here.
So in our original theme, I would look for the file named page my notes dot P in this case because
I do want to keep this if check to make sure that you're logged in.
And if you're not logged in, I want to redirect you away from the My Notes page.
Well, because of that, I'm just going to select everything in this file.
So control A or command A, select it all, copy it all.
Back in the empty file we're working with.
Go ahead and paste it in.
But then let's just go ahead and get rid of this git header line.
So I'll delete that and then we'll also scroll down to the bottom and get rid of the get footer line.
Cool.
Let's go ahead and save that and then test it out.
So if I refresh the my notes page.
Cool.
I'm logged in with a user account, so I should be able to create a new note.
So I'll see.
Example new note number for Lorem ipsum.
Create the note.
Bolt.
There it is.
You can refresh just to prove the point that it actually saved.
I can edit it.
So if I add maybe a few exclamations, click save.
Cool.
I can also click delete and if I refresh just to prove the point, cool, it's actually gone.
However, in this window I'm using Firefox a different browser and I'm not logged in, but if I manually
type in the URL of my notes and push enter to actually visit it, you can see it just redirects me back
to the home page.
Perfect.
So the idea here is that that custom logic that we already wrote in PHP, we don't need to throw it
away just because we're creating a block theme now.
We can absolutely still leverage it.
And in my opinion, we're not really losing out on anything because it's not like the end user would
necessarily want to totally customize this interface.
Right.
I don't think there's much value in the end.
User using full site editing to drag the submit button here to set above the input fields, you know,
or to change the font size of this, create new note text.
So in other words, I realize this placeholder block system, this is 100% just my own personal approach,
my own personal philosophy.
But I've had excellent luck using this approach at this point in the lesson.
We've repeated that process enough times now that I think you're familiar with it, and I think there's
no educational value.
And it would just be boring to record myself creating those placeholder blocks for every single template
that you can imagine.
So it's totally up to you if you want to finish 100% converting our original theme into a block theme
and you really want to set up templates for every single URL.
Well, the downloadable zip file for this lesson will include every single template that was in our
original theme.
So in other words, if I go back into verse code and look at the original theme we built together,
right?
We set up templates for everything imaginable.
Archive Campus Archive Event.
We had page past events, single campus, single event, so on and so forth.
So if you really want these, that's okay.
I will include these.
I will perform the boring work of converting all of these into block types, and you'll be able to find
those in the downloadable zip associated with this lesson.
Having said that, that is going to bring this lesson to a close.
Now, looking ahead to our next lesson, I want to show you how you can restrict which block types can
be used in the full site editor versus in the typical post or page editor.
Right.
In other words, maybe when the user is editing a blog or a page, you would want to let them use any
block type imaginable.
But maybe when they're using the full site editor and editing a template, you want to limit which blocks
they're allowed to use.
Well, we can absolutely set that sort of thing up.
It's not very complicated at all.
It's just a little bit of code in functions dot php.
I think that'll be fun to set up.
Let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.